If possible the books / stories on these should contain the relevant quote(s). Write your book to the quote if you have to :)

Note: Those present at the coming are long lived (150 yrs plus). Typically people only live for more realistic lifespans.

Dishar the alchesmist and her lifes work.
Time: 100ish years after the coming
Expln: Some kind of experiment gone awry.
Storyline Impacts: None yet.

["No, no, no, no, no, no!" screamed Dishar as her lifes work crumbled before her.]


Strom - Swasbuckler
Race: Rehan
Time: 100 years before the coming, Strom is a swashbuckling pirate with a hatred for Dram Koritz. Read tims story for something on Strom. 
Storyline Impacts: Dram Koritz.

["Surprise!" proclaimed Strom as he swung from the walls of the town, rapier glinting in the sun.]


Raturnus - Hunter
Race: El'Cvin
Time: 50 years before the coming. 
Expln: The most famous hunter ever produced. He pops up now and then, but is not a historical figurehead. story about him taking malan solste wilds for home etc
Storyline Impacts: Friend of Verdina. Friend of Tenell.

["Do not worry about food, I know these wilds well." - Raturnus]

[Raturnus took the Malan Solste Wilds for his home; the Nostran Marhah as his vacation]

["Yes, I can talk to the animals. You just need to know their language." - Raturnus ]


Tenell - Archer
Race: El'Cvin
Time: 50 years before the coming. 
Expln: Archer in some army perhaps, forced into exile or hiding and met raturnus. One of the best archers ever, a real willian tell.
Storyline Impacts: Friend of Raturnus.

[From this distance Tenill could vaguely make out his target, but that was enough. Swiftly taking aim and firing he knew his shot was true.]


Verdina Greenwarden- Druid and Apothecary
Race: Rehan
Time: 50 years before the coming, but she is still alive today!
Born: 70 BC
Died: 135AC (IC nobody knows)
Expln: druid of some renown. mysterious and dark, she witnessed the Comming and was forever changed by it. Despite the dark mystery enshrouding her, she oft works for good, well at least the good of nature. See tims story for some info. Several years before the coming she was an apothecary, but gave that up in search of something more which she found at the coming. Her aims were hers alone to know.
Storyline Impacts: She was at the coming. Friend of Raturnus. Friend of Detranis.

["My duty in life is bound to the earth and its creatures, as it shall be in death". - Verdina Greenwarden]

["What happens if I mix in a live tadpole instead of a dead one?" asked Verdina's apprentice. "You spend the week cleaning up the mess", was her reply.]


Jonaseph - Crusader and Savant
Time: Around the coming and beyond
Race: Rehan
Born: 35BC
Died: 120AC
Expln: He turned out good and nice, his brother not nice. Never fought in battles, only healed people, founding the sanctuary toward that aim.
Storyline Impacts: Cured the madness. Started the sephites. Revolutionalised healing magic. Introduced philosophy of peace and helping others.  Brothers with Cylviril.

["Alas brother Cylviril chose the path to his dark ends. But it is no harsher path than mine" - Joneseph ]

["Lay down your weapons so that I may heal your injured." - Jonaseph]


Lorune the master artisan, crafted much of the beauty of the palace of Il'Cora'Dvan.
Race: Cvin
Time: 1100 BC
Expln: Arrogant, but very talented.
Storyling: Part of building the beautiful Il'Cora'Dvan.

["You call that beautiful? I've slipped over and created more glorious works of art!" - Lorune ]


Mittrar, the greatest captain who ever lived? A woman?
Time: 100 AC
Race: Imolean
Born: 100AC
Died: 150AC, lost at sea. - maybe she found that other place...
Expln: Renowned captain based in Cora'Lyst and into trade. Survived the biggest storm ever recorded - the only one to do so. Made lots of maps, and was at the frontier of naval exploration. Had theories about land masses beyond the reach of her custom designed vessel. She only ever found small islands, much to her dismay.
Impacts: Ocassional Companion of Iolear, whom she convinced to join her on her final voyage.

[Tacking countless times in the giant swell, Mittrar was the only captain to lead their ship to safety from the storm.]


Iolear, the great imolean sea mage. Eccentric, hermit. Caused some floods.
Born: 94AC
Died: 150AC (or did he?)
Iolear went with Mittrar on her "last voyage", Mitrrar dependent heavily on Iolears magical talents to help her reach further then she had before. It was an ambitious voyage, one which she swore she would sail further then she had supplies to sail back. They never returned (crew too).

["This land is so dry, I don't think anyone will mind." Moments later the heavens opened and heavy rain descended. It did not stop for five days. - Iolear ]



cylviril
Race: Rehan
Born: 38 BC
Died: 80 AC (Killed be some magic?)
Expln: Studied spirit delving (dark side of it) after the coming. Jonaseph disagreed vehmently with Cylvirls chosen path, and it was a source of friction between them.
Impacts: Brother of Jonaseph. Present at the coming.


Selpar - Tailor
Time: ?
Race: Cvin
From Il'Cora'Dvan.

[Only the finest silks were good enough for Selpar, his clothing more likes works of art then garments.]



Xlevan - A solider before he was clan leader
Race: Rehan
Born: 27BC
Died: 50AC
Read the fists of xlevan help. Not much of a soldier, but knew enough to keep himself alive and lead his men. Very powerful figure. Overtook Cora'Lyst.
Impacts: Merchant who founded the fists of Xlevan. Fought with Sernathin. 

["Without the common man, I am nothing." - Xlevan]

[The battle raged around him, but Xlevan kept his head, choosing his fights carefully.]



Pastilas - Student of magic
Race:  Rehan
Born: 26AC
Died: 104AC
POwerful Magi / Wizard combo guy. Perhaps the most powerful or at least knowledgeable mages who ever lived. He joined with the Ylanthlin and worked his way up, inventing and creating many new spells. Also a scholar.

[Wild gestures and flailing arms did not help Pastilas, his first attempt to create light resulting instead in wind tousled air, a library in disorder and the stern frown of his instructor.]

[No matter how brightly the sun shone, Pastilas was never seen far from his tomes.]

["There are many dangers in using magic, least of all the madness." - Pastilas]


Veranil - labourer who lead the builing of the walls of Cora'Tyl.
Time: 1200BC
Race: Malandrin
The walls end up saving the city as it halted the cvin many years down the track.


[Veranil toiled tirelessly, knowing that his hard work would make a difference in the days to come.]



Toloman - Cvin General who boasted the best swordsman group of his time. During the Cvin Invasion. Was the right hand man of the guy who initiated the empire, and was the best general.
Race: Cvin
Time: 1000BC
Died: Perhaps killed by Joran (see later on) or in battle.
The charge that the quote refers to was on a largest Rehan army to be raised which far outnumbered his army, but had no worthwhile training or weapons.

[Countless died in the first hour of Toloman's charge, the swordsmen cutting deep into the enemy ranks.]


Mecarro
We have a history for him, but as to the quote:
Meccaro's cavalry circles around and kills the command, the main	enemy force being foot and unable committed to the frey. Battle for Il'Cora'Sentar

[Mecarro knew that he had to act quickly or lose the battle. He ordered his cavalry to retreat from the fray and circle around to attack the enemy's command.]


Story about a thieves organisation in Cora'Tyl. Perhaps founded by Szaro (Jlen?), the greatest thief who ever lived. I would suggest this be after the coming and the domination of the Silver tongues.

Perhaps a sperate story just about Szaro and his exploits, the greatest thief who ever lived.

["Szaro one of the greatest thieves who ever lived once claimed he could steal the clothes off a mans back. I believe him." - Anonymous]

["We in Cora'Tyl have a saying - Silk purses are pretty; Iron purses make it to the bank." - Anonymous]



Story about a battle where a wizard who killed everyone in one army then 
a) went mad (as in the madness) and killed his own side too.
b) didnt go mad and was a hero
c) killed himself

[ Lightning bolts thundered down to strike the ground where the army stood. When the dust cleared there were only the dead ]


Story about a great sorceror
I would suggest this particular fight be very small time with no impact on the story. Perhaps just a bunch of brigands who chose the wrong man to waylay.

["You don't wish to kill me now do you?" the man asked. To a man, his attackers  shook their heads, although they knew he was their enemy.]


story about a spirit delver
Several possibilities here:
a) Tacrezia is or was building a keep that a necro kept in the south western ice cliffs, there is a small village near there that would fit well.
b) Something else.

[Most of the villagers feared to look the dark stranger in the eye. Wise, considering his minions.]


Bard, the great Arundel
Race: Cvin
Could be anytime really. No impact on the story, but perhaps a great wencher? Best bard ever.

["I do not compose mere songs, I leave that for the rest." - Arundel ]



Tandar - Falsta Tandar (forrest) - bandits
Time: Around the coming and the formation of the clans.
Race: El'Cvin
Tandar was the greatest, and the forrest named after him for the terror he caused merchants who chose to send their wares on the road which passed through it. Main highway between Cora'Tyl and Cora'Lyst goes through falsta tandar. 


["Your donations are welcome", said Tandar, as he relieved the noble lord of his gold.]

Ambush turned against bandits of the forrest.

[The bandits of Falsta Tandar waited in ambush, not suspecting that their trap was about to be turned upon them.]

The dread Mastan merchant house.

[Tandar watched in dismay as his men struck in vain at the plate mail of the caravan sentries.  The gold train of Mastan never lost a single coin.]

See tims story also perhaps




Chindo - storm sworder of renown
Race: Malandrin
No real story impact, just someone to write about.




Detranis - 
Born: 21 BC
Died: 120 AC
See tims story perhaps, was present at the Comming and a secret member of the oringal Ylanthlin. He took on the guise of a travelling bard, to hide his magical prowess. 

Farmer quote - siege of Cora'Tyl by Xlevan, who eventually had to give up, the walls too big to break down and the people too well supplied and with access to the mountains.

["During the siege of Cora'Tyl, the assailants tightened their belts and listened with envy to the sounds of merriment and feasting passing over the city walls." - from the tales of Detranis.]


Storyteller quote - slew a dragon (outlandish claim, he didnt and couldnt)

["Yes I once slew a dragon; but I was a lot younger then." - Detranis.]


Minstrel quote, possibly a tale about the sanctuary and the sephites.

[From a distance sweet music filtered through the air, delighting the weary travelers.]

Reiech Mokarr - see the book on dragons


Finir - Teachings of a fustrated builder
Anytime really, little impact on story, just more like a wierd topic to write about.
["Have you ever built before?" asked Finir as he inspected the lopsided doorway.]



Knights of Seth'o'par - red shields...
This would be around nowadays, some minor clan squabble. Just mention the Seth'o'par knighthood.

[The armour of the Knights of Seth'o'par shone as the sun... red shields burning as they charged.]



Ingar, Champion of the Dawn. After the Comming Ingar rose to fame,
the period is sometimes refered to as 'The Dawn'. Won 210 fights,
died in battle.


Joran
Eluder quote, Toloman's tent being searched by Joran. Perhaps Joran Kills him. Or maybe he was just after money, Toloman being a general. 
Race: Jlen
Time: Around Tolomans time, never got caught and enslaved like prettty mucht the rest. Would be cool if he did kill Toloman.

[The Cvin General awoke with a start. Was someone in his tent? Surely no one could get past the guards?]



Story about healing the empress, great unknown mystic.
During the Cvin empire, there was only one empress, the rest emperors. Obviously she was dying at some stage, and some unknown character healed her. She would have been living in Il'Cora'Sentar at the time.
Time: Around 700BC



Oracle
["This is a grim portent indeed; ready your armies general." - Cvin Emperors Advisor]
some days before the battle for Il'Cora'Sentar, an oracle to the then emperor. Mecarro of course won that, see the commander quote.


Oabankep - mad guy (Engineer? Alchemist?)
Present day, a smallish but fortified town (perhaps Ru'Patta) that the Fists wished to capture.

["You wish to bring the city gates down master?" cackled the old man with glee. Oabankep was truly mad, but the best.]


We would like you to choose any or all of these to write a story about for our world to help shape and describe it. When you choose a  story let us know so we can share a few ideas first. have fun with it :)
