Player characters start off alive. When the world bites them, they are
hurt. If they are hurt sufficiently, they are incapacitated. 
Incapacitated people can't really do anything. If left alone for long 
enough without outside aid, they will eventually be able to crawl off,
whimpering, to heal. Incapacitated people can be killed relatively
easily. However, they are not dead. They retain all their equipment
(unless a thief happens by whilst they are helpless) and all their
statistics and scores. They probably lose a lot of experience.

The fate of people who have lost fights, gone toe-to-toe with a 
mountain bear, tried and failed to riddle one of the fabled booby
traps of Cora'Lyst, or been captured and flogged to a pulp by the
Cora'Tyl city guard for theft, is to be incapacitated.

Incapacitation is a good time to have friends and/or clanmates.

PC's, as a rule, die once. Once dead, their spirit component is freed
from their flesh: as the Rehan peasants put it, they're a ghost.

Ghosts are disembodied. Thus they cannot do anything which requires 
one. As a rule, ghosts cannot be seen by mortal vision, because the
other four elements are what reflects light. Nor can they touch the
physical world; fairly soon they forget what doors are for. What
sounds they make and smells they emit are too faint for mortal senses.
They leave everything behind on their corpse; they can't use any of
it anyway. They can only interact with each other. Fluxes of Earth,
Fire and Water act on them as a running river does a cake of salt.
Ghosts cannot leave the area where they were killed.

Being a ghost is a bad thing, and to be avoided; hence the concept of
incapacitation to provide a safety net. Once dead, there is NO
standard in character method of reincarnation. All such will be on a
case-by-case basis, mostly involving powerful magic or truly weird
twists of fate. Actual ghosthood is supposed to be rare, and fairly
permanent. Ghosthood is a really good time to have friends who are
still alive. You'll need them.

There are, of course, exceptions to these rules. Magic can do much to
bridge the gap between the living and the dead, and if mortal senses
cannot see them, other senses may. The Sephites have noticed ghosts,
and have several experimental cures, none of which are reliable and
all of which are incredibly expensive. 

Despite most kinds of magic being as feasible as a cool refreshing 
bath in a volcano, certain magicks using pure Spirit (mostly the 
Lu'tamohrese analogs of psi) can be made to work, at a large cost in 
energy. If you yell loud enough and long enought, they will eventually 
hear something - but the chance is very, very low.

Note that you may do whatever you can get away with to other ghosts.
They're in the same boat you are.

We will _consider_ possession, on a case-by-case basis. Ditto coming
back as a zombie or other undead, if you have a LOT of favour points
hoarded. Then again, we will also consider applications to have you
come back as a zombie by the necromancer who just killed you. If you 
have enough FP, we might even let you break free and turn on your 
master. (-:

Once the silver cord is cut or frayed, tying a spirit to a body again 
akin to tying a fishing fly in a maelstrom. Maybe the first time. 
After the tenth such, the subject will start looking decidedly 
tattered. Eventually it won't work at all - and the longer a spirit is
unanchored by a body, the more it dissipates. Eventually there is 
nothing left but a memory - and a deleted PC.

Ghosthood is meant to provide a safety net between dead and deleted,
but one which no sane player will willingly fall into. If we have more
than one or two ghosts at a time, something is wrong.