Response to Regions Document
============================

An interesting map, with some interesting features.

Judging from the geography, it looks as though the prevailing rain
bearing winds would sweep from the southeast, up past the Nethran
and the plains, then hit the Western and Malandrin Ranges and drop
most of it there - hence the forests. Probably a few rivers in that
area, running towards Cora'Lyst and the sea, wouldn't go amiss.

This could be stretched to justify a desert or two along the top. When
the players start to run out of playing room, this is a place to
expand. Who would live in a desert? Malandrin?

The territory of the Fists would seem to have mountains on its'
southwestern coast. Do these mountains have any mines, or even any
deposits? While being barren themselves, they would probably cause a 
marked increase in rainfall between them and the city; probably 
that's where most of the farms should go. The northern agrarian 
communities would probably be more grassland, (i.e. cattle) especially 
with that rain shadow to the northwest of the mountains. It probably
runs right into the central plains.

I suggest the desolation is better placed to the east, where there's
that big scar from the Coming and the Nethran swamps to poison things
nicely.

Speaking of which, there's a small forest indicated to the northeast
of that scar... what lurks there where the magical fallout was 
strongest? Surely not nothing.

Cora'Tyl - well, it's certainly not a seaport. This probably indicates
the presence of Silver Tongue trading enclaves in the port cities of
Lu'Tamohr. Apart from that, I don't know if they'd have that much
trouble growing their own food. Maybe the soils are just poor. Given
that they can't, I suggest that sometimes the Tandar bandits use that
little forest next to the foothills for cover and raid the food 
caravans - or more precisely, the caravans full of gold going the
other way.

The map seems a little vague on exactly where Il'Cora'Dvan is. If it
hasn't already been pinned down, I suggest opposite Ru'Sil on the
Tzan. There's a road heading northeast from the Solste towards the
headwaters of the Tzan - if that's them. A river as deep and huge
as the Tzan would probably be unfordable, so the main trade routes
would be by ship via Ru'Sil and Port Ylanth, and that road. Who
holds the pass where it crosses into the Eastlands?

Normally this would be of little matter as shipping is cheaper and
faster, but there seems to be this outbreak of pirates, so trade
must be booming. It might even make who holds the pass strong enough
and wealthy enough to challenge Seth'o'par. 

The El'Cvin and Falsta Tandar in the Westlands require very little
comment, except to note that they'd have a wet and windy climate,
with the easterlies blowing over the ice cliffs before reaching them
half the time. Green, wet forests. Probably ideal for growing druids.
What is that little blank spot just north of the ice cliffs and
separating the two forests? Wetlands? A glacier?

As for being of little worth, well, probably. They might have an
export industry in mercenaries, though, if only because they have
little else to trade (c.f. the Dorsai).

Most of the mountains are on the north and west. Are they old, or
fairly new? The difference would mainly be whether you get volcanoes
and other things in the oceans off those coasts (plate tectonics).

I assume Cora'Tyl has a thriving fishing industry (too lazy to check).
Do the towns on the Eastland coasts have one? 

- Michael