
It will be important to make sure that we communicate well with each
 other. One problem before envy went down was lack of  communication.
 What I mean by this is that in some cases, you can't just do your own
 thing as some things are quite important and need the input of others
 to progress. The best way to contact each other is via e-mail.
 Obviously the new site will have an e-mail account, which will be used
 for email concerning the mud. Email sent to this address will be
 forwarded to all imms. There will be some instances however where
 the imms should contact other individual imms to clarify an idea. 

For example, making a new builder and approving a new area, it is
 suggested that Verrin has input here as you might expect. The directors
 would also like to have input. Its probably best to just email the
 directors (unless they are online to talk about it) rather then email
 all the imms.

One big area is story. There has been a fair amount of work put into
 defining the existing story for the mud. The directors are happy with
 it, but that doesnt mean things can't change or evolve. It is suggested
 Verrin and Sayell be involved in development of the story. What would
 this entail? I would suggest coming up with plots, background
 information, quests perhaps to be used in the mud. In this area the
 directors would also like to have input. So basically ideas from Verrin
 and Sayell would need to be run by the directors and vice versa.
 E-mail would be good for this. This doesnt mean that other imms can't
 suggest their ideas though. You should send email to those mentioned
 above if you have an idea so it can be picked through.

Obviously if you have been given a role, doing something that that role
 suggests requires no "authorisation" as such. The roles at present are
 a little loosely defined though, so it is important to understand that
 things may change as to what defines your role. The biggest problems
 come when the authority described by a persons role is uncertain. It
 would be good to try and avoid this. It is probable that things have
 been missed in terms of roles. If you notice anything or are unsure
 about your apparent role then communicate!

Everyones opinion is valued no matter what your role. If you are an imm
 (no matter what level) then the directors beleive that your opinion and
 input is essential for the success of the MUD. So although you may not
 have formal 'authority' in an area, your input is still valuable. For
 example, Torkin may beleive a certain skill is too powerful, even
 though the responsibility lies with Isfael and Dantra to keep this area
 ballanced. Torkins input will of course be valued, because Torkin has
 been chosen to be an imm, so that means we respect his opinion. You get
 the picture I hope.

As for those who will hopefully be the imms interacting and creating
 atmosphere for the mud they should feel free to be creative given the
 constraints depicted by the story and the world. They would not have to
 ask to do something unless they wished to develop a large impact plot
 which had not been invented or approved yet. It is likely that
 individual imms will be assigned to individual plots, and it will be
 good to have constant updates (through a seperate note board I think)
 as to the progress of these plots. It might even be best to assign
 specific mobs to specific imms as it is always confusing when more then
 one imm plays a particular mob.

Basically use common sense. If you are unsure of something ask someone
 higher up and so on. Use email where appropriate or notes, though if
 its really important email is better as its easy to read a note then
 forget its importance after reading 53 other notes after it. We intend
 to implement a ToDoList on the mud which will have a list of things to
 do which we can add and remove from. This would include things like
 changes to code, changes to helps etc and would have some sort of
 ranking system. This will hopefully help us remember what needs to be
 done as it is often quite difficult to sort through notes. 




