Here is an overview of Lu'Tamohr imm staff as compiled by me
(Dantra). The roles and structure is derived from the input
I have recieved. New imms are only those that have been agreed
upon by all current imms, and roles assigned as I understand
the interests of the imms to be.

Naturally all imms will have some involvement in each area, as
appropriate. In general however, we will be much more effective
if we take on one or more specific roles.

Regarding level structures, I think the following might be
appropriate:
	1000	Dantra, Isrejin			- Director Imms
	750	Verrin, Isfael			- Senior Imms
	500	Darion, Michael, Tobler, Sayell	- Imms

Heaps of discussion, planning, arguing and compromise has been
undertaken by myself, Isrejin, and a number of irl friends who
no longer have the time available to be imms (Mimosa etc). For
this reason I feel that we can offer a lot of direction in the
development of Lu'Tamohr. This should not impinge upon the
freedom of other imms to be creative and do what they feel is
necessary to make Lu'Tamohr a cool place, but help it instead.
All imms are trusted and respected; and authorative both in
their role and general administration. Verrin and Isfael have
organisational duties and experience which gives them a level
of seniority.

Tacrezia, Thaan and some others would be great to have in the
active imm list, we'll see if they can get more time to be
involved.

Coding - Dantra.

Skill testing and class balancing - someone to make sure the
classes are even and don't have superchars.  Making sure skills
work, don't do too much or too little.
Isfael.
I'd like to see Isfael going as far as creating slists using
current skills/spells, and noting skills/spells needed. Then
sending me the class files, and things to code.
Thaan if he wants to be more involved would help in this area
(or Tacrezia).

Theme - The story, history and background needs constant
development and integration into the rp feel of the world.
Verrin and Sayell would do great working actively here.
Isrejin would be able to give a lot of really good input,
and help review ideas and material.
I'd like to have occasional input and guidance in this area, as
quite a lot of useful design has gone into the way Lu'Tamohr is
set up, which I can help with.

Building - audit areas, proofread, keep builders
in line. The building imm is responsible for making sure every
area is ready and up to scratch, and prioritising/delegating
building resources where required.
Verrin delegating as much as possible.
Isrejin might help you out, its a HUGE task.
Approval of new areas and builders will be part of this, and
shall involve me.

Helping Builders - Implementing mprogs for those without access,
training new builders, creating a standard set of builder equip.
Isfael.

Stuff - making sure we have Strive on mudlists and the
like, doing anything outside the mud required to be popular.
Isfael or Darion.

Web page design and maintinence. -
Isfael.

Atmosphere - responsible for rping with people, interacting with
chars, always available for pc interaction when needed.
Sayell.
Torkin.
Darion.
Michael.
I've put Torkin and Darion down here because I'm not sure how much
time they have to dedicate to Lu'Tamohr, or what roles they would
prefer. Ideally we need another person who is online a lot doing
this also, but I think we should wait and see who does consistent
good rp in Lu'Tamohr before apointing.



If you don't like or don't have the time for the roles as
specified here, please let me know. Similarly if you disprove
of the structure or overall philosophy, suggest refinements.

