The world around us is only one possible outcome of thousands upon
thousands of chances. Physical events seem, upon the surface, beyond
our control. However Life is not governed by cause and effect, only 
matter is. Of the five elements; air, earth, fire, water and soul,
the most readily observed are of course air, earth, fire, and water.
These opperate seemingly independent to our very nature and this
is why many people are completely oblivious to any other mode of
interaction. In reality we are not the hapless toys of chance, and
indeed the world is intrisically linked with our very essence through
all the five elements. Each element has the potential to exist in
various states of harmony with the elements around it. A simple example
is a cluster of the fire element. It has the potential to congeal into
flame, or disperse harmlessly as warmth. These potentials are not
beyond our reach, they are rather linked with us, and every active
entity of our world. The ability to guide the behaviour of events
through these potentials is called magic.

Magic may be performed in many ways, conciously or not. The five most
common methods are; words of power, gestures, rituals, mental casting
and emotal casting. Those actively making use of magical potentials
typically can be classified as Thermotages, Alchemists, Magi, Sorcerors
and Wizards.

Those who actively use magic to attack or heal others are refered to
as mages. Those who use magic to search wisdom and the future are called
sages. Those who use magic for eccentric and spectacular purposes are
termed wizards.

Some believe that magic existed before the Comming. I do not.
I do most certainly confirm that we are and were, before and after,
wholely consistent of these same elements, and subject to the same
potentials. However before the gatherings, our souls and minds were
too isolated in emotion and thought to consiously meddle with the
course of magical potentials. The concentration of thousands seeking
the bond to this deeper reality broke through the substancial barriers
of entity isolation and released 'magic' to us. This was not without
its price or repurcusions, but no true schollar, sage nor destiny seeker
shall spend regret upon it.

Exerpt from other book:
"Magic most definately did exist before the Comming. What were the
gatherings but a demonstration of this? It was intuative casting, before
the potentials of magic were understood. There are many recorded 'miracles'
and 'oddities' concentrated around these gatherings. Indeed the gatherings
consisted almost entirely of the searching for what we now know is magic,
by trial and error. Yes magic existed, and sometimes it was even tapped.
The Comming occured at the birth of our knowledge of magic, but was
otherwise unrelated to the existance of magical potentials or our ability
to meddle with them. It is true that I do not know with certainty the
reason for The Comming, but a few likely scenarios present themselves:
1) Certain mages discovered the power of the potentials and using some
arcane method pushed the interaction of these to ludicrously inharmonic
and random phases (intentionally or unintentionally) which caused the
coalession and subsequent shockwaves (both physical and metaphysical).
2) Higher entities (gods?) sought to put an end to such knowledge by
the destruction of all who held and sought it.
3) ---"

Religious explination exerpt:
"And then the wrath...."




