Slavery at Lu'Tamohr, the Rehan origins.

Common, but not generally accepted, slavery seems to have existed as far back as history is recorded at Lu'Tamohr.  Among the originally nomadic Rehan tribes, tracking the herds of wild Im'hey, the large grass-eaters.  Enslaving others was the natural consequence of conflicting interests.  As the Im'hey were replaced on the wide plains by herds of cows and horses, their trails of migration disrupted by human settlements and fences, the once huge free-roaming herds dwindled dramatically.  This ended the era of the large nomadic tribes of the 
Rehan.  

The first slaves were conquered members of other tribes, and as often as not became full members of the new tribes as time passed and they proved themselves useful and loyal.  This ensured that the relatively small groups had an influx of fresh blood and avoided the horrors of inbreeding.  With the changes in values which followed the more settled lives of farmers and herders of livestock, the question of inheritance became central. There are two traditions of inheritance among the rehan.  At the plainlands there we can assume that the 
nomadic structure of living survived longer than other places, inheritance follows the female line.  The head of the tribe (today loose family structures) is the matriarch - Mezzore - the "Old Mother", a wise woman chosen by the women in the village to lead and head the trade and contact with outsiders.  Her second in command sometimes warlord, in peacetimes in charde of the herds of horses, is Meqar - the "Elder Man".  He is chosen by the men of thr tribe to care for their interests, which includes the protection of the tribe and the care for the herds.

With inheritance following the female line, the question of who the children born belonged to was never an issue.  Motherhood beign obvious and unquestionable, they were all certain to be children of their mothers and raised by mothers, aunts and uncles, unless the male in a union renounced his mother's family and became part of the family of a woman choosing him.  This simplified the tracing of bloodlines, and made the need for other distinguishing ranks less important.  It did not lead to an equal society, as wealth did not leave the matriarch's bloodlines.  But the society did have a fairly flat structure, it was not particularly hierarcic, as all females had the same rights, and all males had the same rights.  The less fortunate were culled by poverty, as charity was not a concept of the nomadic tribes and neither in the matriarch settlements.  In the place of charity there is an intricate system of debt, relationships and the exchange of gifts, which necessitates family ties as a 
basic resource. In this society of marriages, fertility and bloodlines, slavery disappeared, as the only significant difference between human beings was in their familial connections, and the exchange of genetic material through mating across the family lines.

Among the settled tribes, the inheritance soon was tied to the father's line.  The gruelling work at farms wore the child-bearing women down faster than the men.  With men representing the continuity and major source of expanding wealth, tracking fatherhood became important.  This lead to several changes in values and attitudes.  When men represent the continuity and inheritance follows the male line, the concept of "virtue" has a different meaning.  To ensure that wealth passes to his own children, women need to be isolated from other males.  It forced the issue of "half-" or "full-bloods".  This also necessitated the formal unions known as marriage.  Since wealth followed the male line, any children of women with no men to claim responsibility for them were known as outcasts and with no right to a share in the wealth of the family.  On the other hand, the children of a woman not in a formal union, but where the father acknowledged his responsibility, became the property of the man, not 
the woman.  This would still not make them "full-bloods" unless they were pronounced to be so, adopted by their fathers.

In this society of unequal members, the original concept of slavery survived and was expanded.  Since you had to be adopted by a free male to be a full citizen, there were no ways of proving your status or changing your status but at the mercy of the landowning, ruling male class.  Still, because of the often close relationships between a master and his slaves, the house-slaves would at times be bred, trained and cared for with the same pride and possessiveness as valuable livestock.

Today, the Jlen are commonly found as slaves.  The earliest Jlen settlements are not believed to have been subject to slavery.  They did not compete with the nomadic Rehan tribes, and utilised the land along the coast, while the settled Rehan were in the lush inland valleys.  Not until the Cvin started to appreciate the skills of Jlen craftsmen, musicians and dancers did the habit of using Jlen as slaves spread across the island.

Ownership and definitions
A slave is one who:
- is born as the child of a slave
- has lost the right to his or her freedom as a result of crimes
- has been sold into slavery by those with legal rights over the individual, parents or other close kin who have taken over the responsibility of parents through death or adoption.
- is taken prisoner in an act of war, and not negotiated free with the "blood-price" traditionally paid to the captors.

Enslaving free citizens through banditry or misleading deeds, including having subjects sign contracts not read and explained to them by an authorised scribe is illegal.

To own a slave:
To own a slave means to hold the total dominance over an other being.  It's not a beast, but Ziareth, exile, as are we all.  And so it is outside of the balance while containing the balance.  Thus, the owner of a slave is responsible not only for his or her own influence on the balance, but for the slave as well.

                Enidey Errech
                Druid of the Solste Grove
                Pre-occupation

Marks of slavery:
All slaves will, at the age of eight or at the first purchase, be tattoed with a pentangle. (The symbol of the contained balance, of old the symbol of potential possibilities.) Upon freeing, the pentangle will be encased by a pentagon.  (the symbol of possibilities harnessed and contained in themselves.)


---------------------

Lot of stuff here which I have not gone into:
Punishment
Contention of rights
Selling and buying, splitting up families
The rights to good produced by slaves with special skills
The possibility of buying freedom through work or deed

And I guess you lot can think of more.  Feel free - slavery is a good topic for roleplay, but I feel it will be more fun if we have a good frame for it.

Fiory

