The night sky
=============

The moon and the moods of the land are linked. A green moon bespeaks fertility,
red violence. Look to the moon and nature will not catch you unawares.
However the moon is not such a simple being, to be read as a book... like
all intelligent beings it has much more complex moods. Often red and green
appear together, apparently conflicting colours blended with tranquil blues
and yellows.

The Fire Drakes - A group of orange stars seen in the southern night sky between
the months of Heat Uprising and Coruscating Shadows. Ledgend has it that they
are driven away by the winter months, during which time they hibernate in
caverns near the centre of the world, not bothering to take their nightly flight.
The cluster's formation changes slightly as they move, and between nights... in
an untraceable dance. This can be percieved only by the most dedicated observers.

Jewel
Light

Sailor's Beacon - A bright star seen the year round which always traces a direct
line precisely NNW from its zenith. At nightfall, it marks roughly South... but
this is dependant on the season.

Spark Shower - Usually about a month after the commet Fudamim is seen, a patch of
the night sky is filled with thousands of tiny lights. These are the souls of the
righteous, celebrating the just judgment passed by Fudamim. These lights glitter
in mostly white and blue, though there are traces of many other colours.

Glittering Eyes - A pair of bright white stars that provide quite a large portion
of the night's illumination. Mothers oft say no nocturnal evil shall come to their
child, whilst the night is clear enough for the Glittering Eyes to watch over.

Cat's tail - A curving line of dull stars which sweep low along the southern sky.
These stars are seen only in the winter months.

Rozamelle Fires - A very loose cluster of predominantly dark red stars that tend
to flicker inconsistently. They are seen the year round.

Fiory's Stair - A zigzag of bright white stars ending in an intricate pattern of
orange stars. Folklore speaks of a dragon that built a magical bridge to the other
side of the sky, The Fire Dragon. From its celestial roost it watches the night
for unwary travellers. These stars are seen all months except winter.

Candle's Home

The stars are the souls of heros, who have died a glorious
death in battle and now float over long forgotten battlefields.
The stars are balls of crystal, flung so high into the sky that they can never fall.
In a time before rememberance, giant creatures, what we might think of as gods threw
them there, huge gems taken from deeper than any Malandrin miner can delve.

Judgement's Passing - year that the commet Fudamim is seen
Clear Sight
True North Line

Pastilas' Tutor - a non descript star that Pastilas (or was his name Pastalis?)
studied.

The Blight of Dram Koritz - ledgend has it that before the infamous rise of
Dram Koritz, this "star" did not exist. It is, quite inexpicably, blacker than
the rest of the night sky, and is only noticable when the rest of the sky is
clear and illuminated. It is only observed in the deep winter months, and then
only by those who know to look for it. It is said to be a portent of evil.


Verdina's Foresight - Folklore tells that Verdina Greenwarden cultivated a
relationship with this star, and was able to glean glimpses of what lay
over the horizon of time from it. No one ever witnessed any such communicae,
but rumours bound of bright flashes springing from the Nethran Swamps to
the open sky.

Elsor's Way

Jonaseph's Promise - True believers look to this star to remind them of
the purity of their mentor.

Tuureth's Guide

The stars are pieces of the sun that get left behind as it travels the day sky.

The stars are the lights from the houses of the Sky Dwellers. Just as we live
on the ground, so there are those who live on the far side of the sky. For them,
the stars are infact our lights.

Iolear, the sea mage

Diamonds of the Seductress - For those who live on the central plains, this bright
string of white stars oft looks to be skirting the tips of the Malandrin Range.

Ghoul's Grin - A rough semi-circle of green, blue and yellow stars.






